---
title: Adjustable bounding boxes
published: true
---
**FINISHED**
- [x] Task 1: Finished implementing adjustable bounding boxes feature

**TO-DO**
- [ ] Task 1: Support for Darknet
- [ ] Task 1: Add support to change class of wrongly detected objects

# First part of week 6
Till Thursday time was spent to implement Adjustable bounding boxes feature and
neither of the approach suggested last week were used , i.e. neither  
**rectRegions.cpp** nor **Sample.cpp** were used to Detect the mouse clicks, as
there were few issues while trying to accces the required parameters. So on
searching again for the optimum file to edit , **Massinferencer.h** was found.
First I tried updating a few parameters like the boundary box height, width and it's
position to check if evrything was working good or not ,and thankfully it went
well. After this rest was straight forward, write the callback functions for
different types of MouseClick events and adjust the rectangles accordingly.

# Results

<iframe width="811" height="456" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vQGhBgwH-KQ" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


# Second part of week 6
To change the class names of wrongly classified objects is the task for next 1 week.
The GUI for the same has been made and the update rule has also been written as of
7th July , but on closing the Qt window after selecting the required class , I'm
encountering **Segementation Fault error** . And during today's meeting I was asked
to go through DatasetWriters code once so as to get better idea of the Suite is
storing the inferenced results. And only during this week's meeting I came across
the main motive behind the creation of this tool and it was super cool, i.e. this
tool is used to create Datasets for object detections in different required formats.
Till now I thought the main use was to deploy the already trained models on
different kinds of inputs, but that was only extra tasks this could perform , at the
core this was made to generate training datasets for DeepLearning. Now currently
work has been kept on hold for a day or two to go through different available types
of DatasetWriters. Also am feeling super excited :) 
