---
title: Creating a ROS Node
published: true
---
# What and Why
In robotics , many undergrads,engineers and even researchers use ROS as a framework
to communicate across different components present in their robot. And it does so
through ROS Nodes. Usually training an deeplearning model is a horrendous task
,and deploying it into real world is even more. So to make life little simpler
for people in the field of robotics , especially those who use ROS ,effort was
made to build a node which would take an **rosimage** as input and output the
detections present in it using some trained object detection model. Basically
the end user need not worry about writing code to deploy their model, instead
they could just use the raw weights directly.  

# Work done and Difficulties
First we need to subscribe to a rostopic which publishes images. Then using
DetectionSuite's ***Massinferencer***  we run out inferences on it. This is where
first problem shook it's hand. We cannot pass extra variables to callback functions
which is triggered when we receive a rosimage, atleast not in a straight forward
manner. This really took a while to figure out , as suggested by my mentor , I
was required to use **Boost libraries** to get the task done. Second was to overload
the callback function to take care of the type of image that it was trying to
subscribe. Now this part was not so straight forward ,as we need to tell the
subscriber as to which topic we are subscribing to , beforehand. And once we tell
that, that particular message which we receive from the rostopic to which we
subscribed to , gets fixed (the type) , so even before it reaches the callback
function it throws an error saying , as it does not match with the type it subscribes
to. So currently this node accepts messages of type rosimages.  

#Results
<iframe width="804" height="452" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xvPaFZD5EoY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

You can run the node using the following command.
```bash
rosrun detection_suite test _topic:=<topic name> _configfile:=<path/to/configfile>
```
